the Pentagon has quietly ramped up
weapons shipments that are headed for
Israel and I say quietly because there
are some transparency concerns with the
Biden White House Under Pressure to
disclose the extent of its deliveries to
Congress air defense and artillery
rocket system tanks infantry fighting
Vehicles helicopters and manal systems
that is just some of the US's military
assistance provided to Ukraine a
detailed list of weapons is released
with every new military aid package for
ke why is Washington not doing the same
with weapons for Israel we are providing
assistance to Israel through very
different mechanisms than how we provide
assistance to Ukraine the funding
mechanisms and how we're supplying Aid
it's it's two different countries two
different Wars and and again you know
two different areas of responsibilities
the Biden Administration faces pressure
to disclose the extent of us arms in
Israel at least to Congress in the
National Security funding requested to
Congress that the White House included
an exemption for Aid to Israel citing
the country's urgent need the request
includes the authority to wave
Congressional notification requirements
something Washington never requested for
Ukraine this means the Israeli
government would be able to purchase
billions of military articles and
services in complete secrecy Israel is
the world's largest communative
recipient of us Aid in support for
Israel's security has been a Cornerstone
of American foreign
policy but with Israel's intense bombing
of the Gaza Strip scrutiny on the role
the US is playing is also
increasing it is absolutely critical
that Congress is able to to review to
have transparency on all of the weapons
that are going so that it can determine
uh as it appropriates funds to taxpayer
funds frankly um to continue to buy
these weapons that they're used um for
you know the the Urgent defense needs um
but that are not used used in ways that
contravene us laws policies or
international law on um Waging War is
accusations grow that the US government
is not complying with its conventional
arms transfer policy some Democrats are
talking of conditioning future US
military aid to Israel if that happens
the pressure on President Biden to take
a more critical look at America's
military support for Israel will only
increase intensively for I want to pull
in now Clinton he's director for the
United States at Eurasia group and joins
me from Washington DC Clayton it's good
to have you with us tonight what do you
think is behind this double standard
arms to Ukraine are publicly declared
military assistance to Israel shrouded
in
secrecy first thank you for having me uh
I think that the difference here has
less to do with Israel and more to do
with Ukraine actually uh Ukrainian Aid
is extraordinary it was all supplemental
funding requests Standalone bills that
go beyond normal Baseline funding and
it's been relatively politically
sensitive Republicans both members of
Congress and Republican voters have been
somewhat skeptical of the need for
ongoing very high levels of us Aid and
as the war in Ukraine has continued on
that's led to very high levels of
transparency in what exactly is being
sent that's more to Mifi domestic
political concerns the practice of not
disclosing specific military aid or
amounts of armament being sent to Israel
is actually a continuation of relatively
long-standing US policy so I would
highlight the political sensitivity
around approving or even sustaining
Ukraine Aid as the primary difference or
the primary reason for that difference
in transparency so so the lack of
transparency with Aid going to Israel
you're you're saying it's correct
there's nothing new do we have any idea
what type of weapons are being delivered
to
Israel we only have limited information
I would I would Echo some of the
concerns that you some of the notes that
you highlighted earlier that you know
there's a wide range of weapon systems
that have been sold to Israel or been
sent to Israel in in years past air
defense Precision guided uh munition
small diameter bombs we know that those
have been sent those have been
highlighted by the Pentagon I think the
open question is what other things are
being uh sent one area of particular
concern that's been highlighted by
members of Congress and by the
administration itself is Small Arms uh
there were some reports that the US
might constrain or limit shipments of
small arms that were being uh sent out
to Israeli Security Forces unless there
was additional oversight or Clarity
offered in exactly who was ending up
with those weapons so there's a wide
range of things being sent but we don't
have any specifics on what exactly that
consists well Israel Remains the largest
recipient of US military aid the Biden
Administration recently requested that
certain congressional oversight rules
regarding weapon cells to Israel that
those rules be waved do we know why
it's really a matter of expedience
that's the White House's argument here
Congressional notification and review
requirements add some amount of time it
might be weeks it could in some cases be
months and in certain instances has been
years of review and potential delay in
weapons being sent the Biden
Administration included a request to
wave those Provisions for Israel
specifically I think to avoid the risk
that any future Aid package you know
once you've approved an overall amount
of Aid funding you break it up into
packages later on to avoid the risk that
any one of those future Aid packages
might be delayed um that's the best
argument that you know we can kind of
come up with the best reasoning we can
come up with for why that was included
and there is some push back um coming
from both Republicans and Democrats and
Congress they want to pin Aid in both of
these conflicts to funding in domestic
issues I'm talking about border security
the border between the US and Mexico
could this trigger a policy shift in
your opinion um for the Govern
government it absolutely could uh the
negotiations around trading or marrying
border security provisions in Ukraine
funding and that's really the trade-off
that's being made here um they're
ongoing they're they're kind of at a
wall right now in the Senate there is
every possibility uh though I don't
think it's likely yet that you could see
Ukraine Aid curtailed or potentially
delayed forcing some lull and Aid
deliveries to Ukraine again that's
that's not my base case for what I think
happens right now but certain that's on
the table Israel is a different slightly
different scenario Republicans in the
house are looking to cut spending
elsewhere in the government to offset
the cost of additional Israel Aid I
don't imagine that that's actually going
to be something that enters into into US
law I would imagine that Israel Aid has
a slightly clearer path or or easier
path to eventual approval in Congress
Clayton Allen with the Eraser group in
Washington Clayton has always we
appreciate your time and your analysis
thank you thank
you well I'm joined Now by Bradley
Bowman he's a military and defense
analyst and senior director of the
center on Military and political power
at the foundation for defense of
democracies he joins me from Washington
Brad it's good to see you again arms to
Ukraine are publicly declared military
assistance to Israel is shrouded in
secrecy is that a correct description
and if it is
why uh thanks for the opportunity to
join you I you know I wouldn't say it
that way honor ly I would say that there
has been radical transparency in terms
of US security assistance to Ukraine for
example we know that the uh the B
Administration has committed about 44
billion dollars in security assistance
uh to Ukraine since the February 24th
2022 Invasion we know you know we had
the long list of weapons in many cases
we know how many weapons I would say
that's not really the norm and there are
lots of reasons for that one reason
might be particularly over time we've
seen a minority of the Republican caucus
in the House of Representatives uh kind
of dragging their feet and and beginning
to oppose uh support for Ukraine and so
the uh the bid Administration
increasingly as time has gone on has
wanted to to make the case uh on how
this is helping us defense industrial
base and so disclosing those statistics
helps reinforce that effort to try to
build support with Israel um you know
when the Pentagon is asked about this
and recently November 28th a pentagon
reporter asked briger General Pat Ryder
uh for essentially the version of the
question you just asked General Ryder he
cited that you know there are some
complexities involved with Israel that
are not with Ukraine he cited foreign
military sales foreign military
financing pre-existing sales the US
weapon stockpile that's already in
Israel and and the fact that some
weapons are coming from us inventories
your viewers who are paying attention
will say well a lot of that's true of
Ukraine as well and that's true true but
some is not like for example the
pre-existing stockpiles of Us weapons a
skeptic would push back on what general
Ryder and said well you know we're we're
almost two months into this with Israel
you know how hard is it how long do it
take and and that pushes me back to
maybe that there are some political
considerations here yeah politics here
because the White House has been asked
about this and the White House has
argued that transparency full
transparency would imperil Israel's
operational security and that same risk
does not appear to apply to Ukraine I
guess for a Layman watching this the
question would be well why wouldn't
transparency also be a bigger a big risk
for Ukraine why is it a bigger risk for
Israel yeah you know the the the
battlefield situations or the Strategic
situations of Ukraine and Israel are
different obviously I mean Iran has
undertaken a multi-year effort to
establish a ring of fire around Israel
one of the leading concerns right now
is that while Israel is busy trying to
decimate the designated terrorist
organization Hamas and Gaza that
committed the atrocities of October 7th
at any moment you could have Iran's
teror proxy in Lebanon Hezbollah launch
a major front in the north so when you
have a situation like that do you really
want to be telling your adversaries in
the world exactly how many small
diameter bombs have been sent to Israel
for example or joint direct attack
munition so I think there is a
legitimate operational argument for
maybe a different level of disclosure
when it comes to Israel than Ukraine now
you know and someone who pushed back on
what I just said well you know Ukraine's
not exactly a walk in the park either
there there's concerns there but given
the geography uh of Ukraine the Geo the
realities of the battlefield uh in the
two places I think there is some
argument for maybe a little less
disclosure when it comes to security
assistance for Israel let me ask you to
since you're in Washington I wanted to
just press a little bit more about the
the the the political dimensions of this
you know that there are louder calls
than we've seen ever before in the
United States and on Capitol Hill for
there to be a ceasefire between Israel
and Hamas there's also been accusations
that um the mil the Israeli military has
been doing things that people perhaps do
not want to have committed in their name
if that is the case do you think there's
a risk in Washington with just an
election just a year away that if you
have been a supporter of sending weapons
to Israel that could become political um
baggage or weight against you on
Election Day do you see that being
disgust or do you see that Trend I
would yeah I would you know I'd
respectfully press back on the premise a
little bit it's undoubtedly true that
some on the farle have called for the
White House to curtail or condition
security assist Israel and apply
pressure to permanently halt combat
operations in Gaza thus far uh the
administration has in my view admirably
resisted doing so you know you see uh
you see VI the vice president's speech a
day or two ago you saw uh secretary
Austin's speech at the at the Reagan
Forum in California where they were a
little bit more they applied a little
bit more public pressure um but here's
the thing that I think everyone needs to
know in my opinion wherever they are in
the political spectrum that you know if
you're concerned about going after the
terrorist who committed the worst
Slaughter of Jews a single day Slaughter
of Jews since the Holocaust then you
want Israel to have the means to
precisely kill those terrorists the
people that did that so they can't do it
again while minimizing silian casualties
and if you cut off the US provision of
precision guided Munitions you're going
to do exactly the opposite you're going
to make it harder for them to kill these
terrorist and you're G to despite the
ongoing best efforts of Israel to
minimize civilian casualties you're
going to have more civilian deaths and
so and by the way you're probably going
to extend the war and thereby increase
civilian suffering so this really is
someone who into these issues it really
is an instance where I think people with
a particular agenda are pushing for
something that will directly undermine
their primary goals Brad Bowman as
always good to talk with you good to get
your insights tonight as always thank
you thank
you